# Description #
osgLeap is an utility library supporting development of OpenSceneGraph based application that shall make use of the Leap Motion device. osgLeap integrates Leap Motion's tracking data into native OpenSceneGraph (USER-)events to ease use within OSG's event handlers.

osgLeap delivers the following features:
  * A CameraManipulator derived from osg::OrbitManipulator called osgLeap::OrbitManipulator which supports different interaction styles. Have a look at our Youtube demos to understand the interaction metaphors:
    * Two handed mode: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0wBiiKo_hys
    * Single handed mode: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zWSWfaZcJXY
    * Trackball mode: to be done
  * An osgLeap::PointerEventDevice which is derived from osgGA::Device to generate native OpenSceneGraph events from your Leap Motion actions. PointerEventDevice can be used to generate either mouse or touch events.
  * A class to visualize the current hands state using simple 2D graphics showing detected hand and finger count (osgLeap::HandState)
    * How osgLeap detects hand's state: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QboB695-7rI
  * 2D pointing in 3D space: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8de-N90ttU0
    * Using a class to draw current pointer positions onto the screen (osgLeap::PointerGraphicsUpdateCalllback)

# Building #
For building the version with the latest features I recommend checking out the tag from SVN (which is osgLeap-0.5.1, currently). Please refer to the source page for Subversion URL. The upcoming version will be tagged within the next weeks.

# Requirements #
  * At least OpenSceneGraph-3.1.4, or OpenSceneGraph-3.2.0 or higher
  * OSG built with PNG plugin support (to read the PNG images files for the osgLeap::HandState class)
  * (recommended) Latest LeapSDK (2.1.5)

# News #
## 2014-10-31: osgLeap-0.5.1 released ##
  * Build support for LeapSDK-2.1.5 (beta)
  * Compatibility mode for LeapSDK-1.x may be enabled by adding LEAPSDK\_1X\_COMPATIBILITY define (manually). Compatiblity mode is deprecated and may be removed in the next version.

## 2014-04-03: osgLeap-0.5.0 released ##
  * Build support for LeapSDK-1.0.9

  * Introduced osgLeap::Device to generate native OpenSceneGraph USER events based on the Leap::Frame data generated by Leap Motion.

  * osgLeap::OrbitManipulator now reacts with the osgLeap::Events generated by osgLeap::Device. This enables support of ON\_DEMAND rendering.

  * PointerGraphicsUpdateCallback can now be subclassed, so that overriding PointerGraphicsUpdateCallback::createPointerGeode enables any custom 'mouse pointer' graphics by returning your custom osg::Geode there

  * Added a modifier state for toggling ON/OFF panning in single-handed mode Panning in single-handed mode can either be enabled by the modifier key (if set), or directly by using OrbitManipulator::setModifierState(bool) using a custom EventHandler in your application. The behaviour of the modifier key can be customized using setModifierMode(ModifierMode). ModifierMode supports either:
    1. MM\_SIMPLE: Enable modifier (panning) while key is pressed and disable modifier upon key release
    1. MM\_TOGGLE: Toggle Modifier (panning) once the key is released

## 2013-10-25: osgLeap-0.3.0 released ##

  * osgLeap-0.3.0 requires at least OpenSceneGraph-3.1.4 including build of the osgdb\_png plugin to read the PNG images files for the osgLeap::HandState class

  * Introduced osgLeap::PointerEventDevice to generate native OpenSceneGraph events from your Leap Motion actions. As the name suggests this class focuses on generating (or 'emulating') 2D mouse or touch events for all fingers detected pointing at the screen. PointerEventDevice supports two modes for click emulation or may be deactivated:
    1. Time-based (e.g. if pointer is standing still for 5 seconds, however the actual trigger time can be defined by the user)
    1. Screentap (fires a mouse or touch event if the Leap 'Screentap' gesture is done)

> PointerEventDevice may be configured to fire either mouse or touch events however the touch emulation is to be considered experimental.
> To test PointerEventDevice run the leappointer example.

> Feedback on the touch emulation mode is greatly appreciated.

  * Added osgLeap::HandState visualizer to give the user a hint on what the Leap Device is currently seeing.

  * Introduced osgLeap::PointerGraphicsUpdateCallback for visualization of the positions you are pointing at. Refer to example\_leappointer on how to use

  * Renamed osgLeap::LeapManipulator to osgLeap::OrbitManipulator. This is done in order to avoid naming issues with future additional manipulators.

  * Renamed example\_leapdemo to example\_leaporbit

  * Introduced osgLeap::HUDCamera class to simplify examples

## 2013-08-06: osgLeap-0.1.2 released ##
  * Build support for g++ on Linux (tested on g++ 4.6 on Xubuntu 12.04)
  * Introduced "singlehanded" and "trackball" single handed manipulator modes
  * Introduced compatiblity mode for LeapSDK 0.8.0 and lower (in CMake options please enable LEAPSDK\_080\_COMPATIBILITYMODE). Leave compatiblity mode disabled for LeapSDK 0.8.1 or higher.

## 2013-07-30: osgLeap-0.1.1 released ##
  * Code cleanup and build support for MSVC++ 2008, 2010 and 2012.

# Usage #
See examples for details on usage.

# Licensing #
osgLeap is supplied AS-IS without any warranty and is licensed under the GNU Lesser GPL Version 3.0. If you like to contribute to the project, feel free to contact us.